Next I will show you how to deal with
egress traffic in Istio.
Here is an example of our hello pod
that wants to reach an external service.
Once the hello container contacts an external service,
then it's going to be rerouted to the Envoy proxy.
The Envoy proxy will then, by default,
not route any traffic to external services.
You have to enable it on a per service basis.
In this demo I will show you how to enable egress traffic
for what services you want to contact.
We have again an empty cluster.
There's no pods here.
And I'm going to relaunch the helloworld.
The first helloworld applications.
So we'll do a kubectl apply and do
an istio kube inject command.
This will create our three pods,
hello world and world-2.
First I will contact an external service
without specifying anything
to show you that Istio will block this.
Then I will enable the rules for this particular service.
And then we should be able to access our external service.
So our pods are now up.
I just log into one.
Log into this hello pod.
I'll open a shell.
Let's first try world-2 8080.
That works.
Central app.
Now on the contact, for example,
ifconfig.co, which is a website
that just returns your IP address.
And that doesn't work,
so we get an error back.
Even if you do other websites, google.com, for example,
we always get an error.
We have to enable egress traffic for,
for example ifconfig.co,
if you want to access this service.
So here is the yaml definition for this.
So we have a ServiceEntry object.
I have one for http and one for https.
So we say, for example, host ifconfig.co,
port 80 for http, and the location is MESH_EXTERNAL.
So this will then allow this host name to be contacted
from within our service mesh.
If you want to use https then we need two objects,
the ServiceEntry object and the VirtualService object.
This is the same for the same host, ifconfig.co.
This time port number is 443, which is https.
And then we define VirtualService for the host
ifconfig.co, use tls, and then here we have matching rule
for port 443, the sni_hosts ifconfig.co,
and then the destination is ifconfig.co.
So it's https we need those two rules,
if it's http we just need one rule.
So I'll exit this.
Let's kubectl apply this.
And let's log in again into the same pod.
And let's try to access now ifconfig.co.
Now it seemed to have worked.
And yes, here is the IP address of my kubernetes cluster
of one of the nodes that is contacting this
ifconfig.co website.
This works for http.
Let's try https.
Https also works.
Let's now try something else.
Google.com.
Google.com still doesn't work because we haven't defined
any rules for google.com.
So if your services, if your service mesh is using
an external host this is then how you have to configure it
so that it is reachable from within your containers.